Welcome to this module on Security Monitoring and Alerting in AWS.
In the first clip,
we will take a look at AWS Config and understand key
terminologies used in the service.
Before diving deep, let me draw on an analogy.
If you have used Microsoft Word in preparing a document and requested
your manager or your director for his review comments,
you would turn on Track change feature in MS Word.
Once this feature is turned on, any additions,
deletions,
or review comments are tracked and have a nice history and see
how the document evolved over a period of time.
The AWS Config does a lot more from a tracking standpoint,
but the Track change feature for MS Word is AWS Config for your AWS account.
Let's see some of the features and benefits of AWS Config.
It provides a snapshot of your current AWS resources configuration.
Some of the AWS resources that are supported by AWS Config include EC2,
EBS, security groups, VPC, on so on.
As your configuration changes over a period of time,
AWS Config keeps track of all the changes and maintains an audit trail.
And AWS Config has a nice feature to push SMS
notifications to notify you of any changes.
By setting config rules,
you can run periodic checks and make sure that your AWS resource and its
configurations do not fall out of security compliance. Along with
maintaining the configuration, it also maintains a relationship between
AWS resources, and you can monitor and track the changes as changes
happen to each one of them.
Let's quickly get acquainted to some of the AWS Config terminologies.
Configuration items. For each resource that is part of your AWS account,
configuration items represent the attributes of a specific resource at a
point in time. Configuration history.
It is a collection of configuration items for the given
resource for a given period of time.
For example, if Amazon S3 happens to be one of your resources,
every time an S3 bucket gets created, modified, and deleted, a
new configuration item will be created, and the collection of
all these items will represent the history of that AWS resource.
Configuration recorder.
The configuration recorder records the configuration of all the AWS resources
in your account. This can be fine tuned in the Settings section by choosing
to record all the resources or only a selected few resources. Configuration
snapshot represents a collection of configuration items for the resources
that exist in your account.
A configuration stream is a list of all the configuration items that are
automatically updated every time a change happens to a resource.
Configuration stream can publish a notification to the SNS, and you can keep track of changes and identify any potential problems.